# About the Case Study 

About the Case Study 
In this system individual passengers will be given a digital token, that they will present to a digital reader when they are getting into a bus as well as when they get out of the bus when it arrives the destination. The token might be a smartcard (as in London’s Oyster card system), but might also be a physical ticket with a bar code or could be held on a mobile device that can be read using a QR code or handled by some new innovative interaction.

The digital reader in the bus where the passenger presents the token, will give audio or visual feedback that the token has been read successfully. This may be important in situations such as getting on a bus, where the bus driver will be responsible for ensuring that every passenger scans their token and has sufficient credit to permit the journey. Instead of manually checking the validity of the tickets the Inspectors will use digital readers that enable them to check that passengers have properly used their token for the journey.

When a passenger get a token, they will hold an account with public transport provider. Each account will have an initial credit when they first get the token. There will be pay stations in the major bus stations where they can add credit to the account using cash, debit or credit cards. Also passengers will be able to add credit online by visiting the transport service provider’s website. In some situations they should be able to access this service via mobile as well. For some passengers, it may be necessary to be able to look up the journeys they have taken and the fares they have paid so that they can claim expenses back from their employers. 

The system needs to be designed so that it can manage different types of fare system. For example, in London’s Oyster card system, when a passenger makes a single journey, they pay a fare determined by the length of that one journey. In this situation it would be ideal to calculate the fare based on the starting point and the ending point, where the money will get deducted from the account when the passenger used the token to get out from the bus.

Also when it comes to visitors like foreigners who visit the country temporary might need a different way to travel in buses since they won’t have any personal accounts. 

Public transport managers also need information from the digital ticketing system. For example, to plan timetables, or to identify potential overcrowding on parts of the network, they will need to know information about how many passengers use different parts of the network at different times of day and on different days of the week. To plan the finances they will need to know information about the fares collected from passengers and how these relate to journeys that have been taken. They may also require information about how often the ticket inspectors discover people travelling without a valid ticket, as this information may affect whether additional inspectors should be employed. The system should be able to provide statistical reports to the public transport managers to analyse different situations. 
